GH-35084: [Docs][Format] Add how to change format specification (#35174)
apache/arrow: docs/source/format/Changing.rst

.. Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
.. or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
.. distributed with this work for additional information
.. regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
.. to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
.. "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
.. with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

..   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

.. Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
.. software distributed under the License is distributed on an
.. "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
.. KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
.. specific language governing permissions and limitations
.. under the License.

How to Change Format Specification
==================================

> **Cross-language** is important in Apache Arrow. To keep it, we use

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Cross-language** is important in Apache Arrow. To maintain it, we use
```

Or add descriptive word after` keep it` would share the purpose better.

> the following process when dealing with format (files in
> `<https://github.com/apache/arrow/tree/main/format>`_) changes:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
the following process when dealing with changes to the format (files in
`<https://github.com/apache/arrow/tree/main/format>`_):
```
Minor readability nit

> * We must go through a formal DISCUSS and VOTE process

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* We must discuss and vote on the changes on the public mailing list
```

> * We must have at least 2 reference implementations and associated

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* We must have at least two reference implementations and associated
```

  integration tests

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion

These do not have to be done in order. In most cases, having at least one 
draft reference implementation is helpful for design discussion.

```

> DISCUSS and VOTE Process
> ------------------------

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Discussion and Voting Process
-----------------------------
```

> DISCUSS process is a process to discuss the format changes in

Reviewer: ```suggestion
DISCUSS process is a process to discuss capability of the format changes in
```

> DISCUSS process is a process to discuss the format changes in
> public. Anyone can join the discussion. The DISCUSS process is done by
> starting a thread in dev@arrow.apache.org with ``[DISCUSS]`` prefixed
> subject.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Changes to the format should be discussed on the public mailing list.
Anyone can join the discussion. The discussion should be started by a 
thread in dev@arrow.apache.org with the ``[DISCUSS]`` prefixed subject.
```

.. note::

>    We sometimes use ``[Discuss]``, ``DISCUSS: `` or something but
>    ``[DISCUSS]`` is recommended.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   We sometimes use ``[Discuss]``, ``DISCUSS: `` or something similar but
   ``[DISCUSS]`` is recommended.
```

> Here are examples:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Here are some examples:
```

* `[Discuss][Format] Add 32-bit and 64-bit Decimals <https://lists.apache.org/thread/9ynjmjlxm44j2pt443mcr2hmdl7m43yz>`_
* `[DISCUSS][Format] Starting to do some concrete work on the new "StringView" columnar data type <https://lists.apache.org/thread/dccj1qrozo88qsxx133kcy308qwfwpfm>`_

> VOTE process is a process to tell whether we have reached

Reviewer: ```suggestion
VOTE process is a process to poll whether we have decided to adapt changes or not.
```

> VOTE process is a process to tell whether we have reached
> consensus. We can start a vote for the format changes after we reach

Reviewer: ```suggestion
VOTE process is a process to poll whether we have decided to adapt changes or not.
We can start a vote for the format changes after we reach
```

> VOTE process is a process to tell whether we have reached
> consensus. We can start a vote for the format changes after we reach
> consensus in the preceding DISCUSS process.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The voting process is used to verify we have reached consensus.
We can start a vote for the format changes after we reach
consensus in the preceding DISCUSS mailing list thread. Similar
to discussion threads, voting thread must have the subject prefix
``[VOTE]``.
```

> See also: `Apache Voting Process <https://www.apache.org/foundation/voting.html>`_

Reviewer 4: Does this follow the same rule of apache voting? For example, which vote is considered binding?

Author: Yes.
"[VOTE][Format] Fixed shape tensor Canonical Extension Type" https://lists.apache.org/thread/f303yscj8gq4oggvvcbvf5zpo972l1kk is a recent example.

> At Least 2 Reference Implementations
> ------------------------------------

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
At Least Two Reference Implementations
--------------------------------------
```

> We must have at least 2 reference implementations and associated
> integration tests to confirm whether the format changes are
> cross-compatible and consistent.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
We must have at least two reference implementations and associated
integration tests to confirm whether the format changes are
compatible across languages and consistent.
```

> We must choose complete implementations for them. Here are candidate

Reviewer 4: How do we define a reference implementation is complete? For example, if a new data/array type is proposed, does the IPC, compute functions, and parquet module should be implemented as well?

Reviewer 3: I don't think we need to lay down hard rules. Below we link to https://arrow.apache.org/docs/status.html, which gives us a grid of implementations and their status. Which parts are relevant will depend on the feature IMO. For most new data types, I suspect what's important is IPC implementation.

Reviewer 5: It's ~up to the voters, effectively. I think it'd be hard to pin this down in text.

That said, this part is discussing whether the implementation is considered a reference Arrow implementation. Which is more about whether the the implementation is self-contained (as opposed to a binding) and ~completeness of the Arrow specification and development activity.

> We must choose complete implementations for them. Here are candidate

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Reference implementations must be within complete Arrow implementations. Here are candidate
```

implementations:

> * The C++ implementation
> * The Java implementation

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* The C++ implementation
* The Java implementation
* The Rust (arrow-rs) implementation
* The Go implementation
```

We can discuss and vote to add more implementations to the list.

> We may use doc:`../status` for the discussion.

Reviewer 3: We should probably link to the versioning page as well:

```suggestion
We may use doc:`../status` to determine which implementations are complete.

Versioning
----------

The format version (which is separate from the library versions) must also
be incremented as new changed are made. See :doc:`Versioning`.
```

.. Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
.. or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
.. distributed with this work for additional information
.. regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
.. to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
.. "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
.. with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

..   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

.. Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
.. software distributed under the License is distributed on an
.. "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
.. KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
.. specific language governing permissions and limitations
.. under the License.

Changing the Apache Arrow Format Specification
==============================================

> **Cross-language** compatibility is important in Apache Arrow. To keep it, we use

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
**Cross-language** compatibility is important in Apache Arrow. To maintain it, we use
```

Anyone can join the discussion. The discussion should be started by a 
thread in dev@arrow.apache.org with the ``[DISCUSS]`` prefixed subject.

.. note::

   We sometimes use ``[Discuss]``, ``DISCUSS: `` or something similar but
   ``[DISCUSS]`` is recommended.

Here are some examples:

* `[Discuss][Format] Add 32-bit and 64-bit Decimals <https://lists.apache.org/thread/9ynjmjlxm44j2pt443mcr2hmdl7m43yz>`_
* `[DISCUSS][Format] Starting to do some concrete work on the new "StringView" columnar data type <https://lists.apache.org/thread/dccj1qrozo88qsxx133kcy308qwfwpfm>`_

The voting process is used to verify we have reached consensus.
We can start a vote for the format changes after we reach
consensus in the preceding DISCUSS mailing list thread. Similar
to discussion threads, voting thread must have the subject prefix
``[VOTE]``.

See also: `Apache Voting Process <https://www.apache.org/foundation/voting.html>`_

At Least Two Reference Implementations
--------------------------------------

We must have at least two reference implementations and associated
integration tests to confirm whether the format changes are
compatible across languages and consistent.

> Reference implementations must be within complete Arrow implementations. Here are candidate
> implementations:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Reference implementations must be within complete Arrow implementations.
For example, the C++ library is acceptable but the Python library is not, 
since it is a wrapper around the C++ library. Here are candidate
implementations:
```
